Every process needs some resources, so for these resourse the process requesting to operating system.
There two kind of resouces first is shareable and second one is non-shareable.
it's operating system's duty to assign rescurces to each process in a proper manner. By proper manner we mean that if resources are not sharable then they should assign to only one process.
Necessary conditions for deadlock : 
a) Mututal Exclusion (Means resources are not shareble)
b) Hold and Wait (p1 holds r1 and wait for r2  and at same time p2 holds r2 and wait for r1)
c) No premption ( Resource Premption :- If operating system assign a resource to a process now this resource can not be taken back until the preocess will complete)
d) Circular Wait (Samne as explain in hold and wait, Resource Allocation)
All these four conditions are necessary for deadlock. If you can't fullfil even a single condition there can't be deadlock.
There can be multiple instance of one type of resources. 

Deadlock Handling:
1) Deadlock Prevention :- To ensure to not geeting any request that can cause a deadlock
2) Deadlock Aviodance :- Before accept the request make sure the can't be cause a deadlock
3) Detection and Recovery :- Check is deadlock happens or not if deadlock then recover this
4) Ignore the deadlock :- The idea is that if deadlock is very infrequent and it requires very costly method for prevention, avoid or recvoery then ignore it.
Most populor approach is ignorance but mostly the used a mixed approach.

Deadlock Prevention:
4 technique eliminate for 4 necessary condtion.
1) Mututal Exclusion - Spooling (Make job queue for resource, not a fullfree solution bcz job queue might be full)
2) Hold and Wait - Two ways first one to inform in advance but impractical, 2nd one in preocess must realse all resources before requesting 
3) No premption - Elimanting No premption but impractical 
4) Cirucal Wait - Numbring the resources and then make rule that all preocess in increasing order. For example if a preocss hold resource 4 then it can only request of higher no. resorces.

Deadlock Avoidence: Banker's Algorithm, impractical to declare maximum need in advance. 
